Understand that a function from one set (called the domain) to another set (called the range) assigns to each element of the domain exactly one element of the range. 
If f is a function and x is an element of its domain, then f(x) denotes the output of f corresponding to the input x. 
The graph of f is the graph of the equation y = f(x).
Use function notation, evaluate functions for inputs in their domains, and interpret statements that use function notation in terms of a context
Recognize that sequences are functions, sometimes defined recursively, whose domain is a subset of the integers. For example, the Fibonacci sequence is defined recursively by f(0) = f(1) = 1, f(n+1) = f(n) + f(n-1) for n ≥ 1.
For a function that models a relationship between two quantities, interpret key features of graphs and tables in terms of the quantities and sketch graphs showing key features given a verbal description of the relationship. Key features include: intercepts; intervals where the function is increasing, decreasing, positive, or negative; relative maximums and minimums; symmetries; end behavior; and periodicity.
Relate the domain of a function to its graph and, where applicable, to the quantitative relationship it describes. For example, if the function h(n) gives the number of person-hours it takes to assemble n engines in a factory, then the positive integers would be an appropriate domain for the function.
Calculate and interpret the average rate of change of a function (presented symbolically or as a table) over a specified interval. Estimate the rate of change from a graph.
Graph functions expressed symbolically and show key features of the graph by hand in simple cases and using technology for more complicated cases.
Graph linear and quadratic functions and show intercepts, maxima, and minima.
Graph square root, cube root, and piecewise-defined functions, including step functions and absolute value functions.
Graph polynomial functions, identifying zeros when suitable factorizations are available and showing end behavior. 
Graph rational functions, identifying zeros and asymptotes when suitable factorizations are available and showing end behavior.
Graph exponential and logarithmic functions, showing intercepts and end behavior, and trigonometric functions, showing period, midline, and amplitude and using phase shift.
Write a function defined by an expression in different but equivalent forms to reveal and explain different properties of the function.
Use the process of factoring and completing the square in a quadratic function to show zeros, extreme values, and symmetry of the graph, and interpret these in terms of a context.
Use the properties of exponents to interpret expressions for exponential functions. 
Identify percent rate of change in functions such as , , , and and classify them as representing exponential growth or decay.
Compare properties of two functions each represented in a different way (algebraically, graphically, numerically in tables, or by verbal descriptions). For example, given a graph of one quadratic function and an algebraic expression for another, say which has the larger maximum.
